# CO2-Smog-Emission-Classification
The given set of codes explore machine learning models for dataset collected from Kaggle by performing classification. 
The dataset is related to fuel consumption ratings in year 2022. The dataset gives fuel consumption ratings and estimated CO2 emission for new light duty vehicles for retail sale in Canada. The dataset constitutes of almost 1000 records and 12 columns namely Model Year, Make, Model, Vehicle Class, Engine Size, Cylinders, Transmission, Fuel Type, Fuel Consumption (City (L/100 Km)), Fuel Consumption (Highway (L/100 km)), Fuel Consumption Combine (L/100 Km), Fuel Consumption Combine (mpg), CO2 emission (g/km), CO2 ratings and Smog Ratings. The CO2 and Smog ratings are scaled from 1(worst) to 10 (best). 
The link to the given dataset is given below:
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rinichristy/2022-fuel-consumption-ratings

Abstract:
The deteriorating climatic conditions over the time has alarmed the world forums to take the problem seriously and to focus on development and revision of projects that are more environment friendly and sustainable. The ever-expanding industrialization has caused smog formation over the cities and great emission of carbon dioxide from usage of greenhouse gases. It is an hour of need to identify the factors that contribute to release of smog and CO2 to reduce the adverse effects caused by economic development. With the emergence of idea of making transportation systems smart, it is important to understand and be aware of the factors which are contributing to high vehicles emissions to cope up rapidly increasing threat to the environment. This paper presents a comparative analysis of machine learning models by doing classification on given dataset based on smog and CO2 ratings. The research findings confirm machine learning efficacy in performing classification for CO2 as response variable with 98% F1, precision and recall score which then can be prove useful in improving the adverse effects of transportation sector on climatic conditions. The developed model’s overall performance in doing classification based on smog is above 75% which though is less as compared to CO2 but still seems a good score.

IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS:
Data Sampling: In given dataset we have five categorical variables namely Make, Model, Vehicle Class, Transmission and Fuel while rest of the variables are numeric. For analysis we are going to drop Year variable from the given dataset which only holds single value i.e., 2022. 

Data Preprocessing: This step involves two main steps. First converting non-numerical variables to numeric using python’s dummy coding. Second, splitting of given dataset in to training and test datasets respectively using sklearn’s train_test_split. For the purpose 70% data is used for training and 30% is set for testing purpose. The above data pre-processing is conducted mainly for decision tree and support vector classifier (SVC). For Neural network, after converting categorical variables to numeric using dummy coding, the response variable for Neural network in coded using Python’s OneHotEncoder and then train_test_split is used to split given dataset in to training and test datasets respectively. The neural network is designed with 803 input values. For output layer of neural network, number of neurons are set to 5 for predicting smog as smog only has five unique values and 10 for predicting CO2. The developed model is run for 50 epochs. 
